$\sqrt{3x-1}+(1+x)^2$
# Connectives

In propositional logic, generally we use five connectives which are:

## **Inclusive OR / Disjunction (∨)**  
The OR operation of two propositions A and B (written as A∨B) is true if at least any of the propositional variables A or B is true.

The truth table is as follows:

| A     | B     | A ∨ B |
|-------|-------|-------|
| True  | True  | True  |
| True  | False | True  |
| False | True  | True  |
| False | False | False |

## **Exclusive OR (⊕)**

For any two propositions `p` and `q`, their exclusive or is denoted by `p ⊕ q`, which means “either `p` or `q` but not both”. The exclusive or `p ⊕ q` is True when either `p` or `q` is True, and False when both are true or both are false. The truth table of `p ⊕ q` is:

| p   | q   | p ⊕ q |
|-----|-----|-------|
| T   | T   | F     |
| T   | F   | T     |
| F   | T   | T     |
| F   | F   | F     |

## **AND / Conjunction (∧)**  
The AND operation of two propositions A and B (written as A∧B) is true if both the propositional variables A and B are true.

The truth table is as follows:

| A     | B     | A ∧ B |
|-------|-------|-------|
| True  | True  | True  |
| True  | False | False |
| False | True  | False |
| False | False | False |

### **Negation (¬)**  
The negation of a proposition A (written as ¬A) is false when A is true and is true when A is false.

The truth table is as follows:

| A     | ¬A    |
|-------|-------|
| True  | False |
| False | True  |

**Example,** Negation of “It is raining today”, is “It is not the case that is raining today” or simply “It is not raining today”.

### **Implication / if-then (→)**  
An implication A → B is the proposition “if A, then B”. It is false if A is true and B is false. The implication **p → q** is also referred to as a **conditional statement**. The rest of the cases are true.

- In the implication **p → q**: - **p**: Called the **hypothesis**, **antecedent**, or **premise**.
- **q**: Called the **conclusion** or **consequence**. 

The truth table is as follows:

| A     | B     | A → B |
|-------|-------|-------|
| True  | True  | True  |
| True  | False | False |
| False | True  | True  |
| False | False | True  |
## Why is p → q true when p is false?

One might wonder why `p → q` is true when `p` is false. This is because the implication guarantees that when both `p` and `q` are true, then the implication is true. However, the implication does not guarantee anything when the premise `p` is false. There is no way of knowing whether or not the implication is false since `p` did not happen. 

This situation is similar to the "Innocent until proven Guilty" stance, meaning that the implication `p → q` is considered true until proven false. Since we cannot call the implication `p → q` false when `p` is false, our only alternative is to call it true.

##  Terminology is used to express p → q are

```
“If p, then q"
”p is sufficient for q”
”q when p”
”a necessary condition for p is q”
”p only if q”
”q unless ≠p”
”q follows from p”
```

### **If and only if / Bi-Implication (⇔)**  
A ⇔ B is a bi-conditional logical connective which is true when p and q are the same, i.e. both are false or both are true.

The truth table is as follows:

| A     | B     | A ⇔ B |
|-------|-------|-------|
| True  | True  | True  |
| True  | False | False |
| False | True  | False |
| False | False | True  |
## Some common ways of expressing p ↔ q are: 

1. "p is **necessary and sufficient** for q." 
2. "If p then q, and conversely." 
3. "p if q."`


